good afternoon as of 9 a.m. on the 28th
of March a total of 120 thousand seven
hundred seventy six people have been
tested of which a hundred and three
thousand six hundred eighty seven were
confirmed negative and seventeen
thousand and eighty-nine were confirmed
positive as a 5:00 p.m. on the 27th of
March 1019 patients in the UK who tested
positive for corona virus have sadly
died as with our population for
businesses large and small coronavirus
represents an unprecedented challenge
speaking with business leaders and
representative organizations every day I
appreciate just how tough the situation
is when we tell people to stay at home
to protect the NHS and save lives we
know it has a real cost to your families
and to your firms and I want to thank
the many businesses and workers right
across the UK who are playing a vital
role in keeping the British economy
going you are delivering for our nation
through this difficult time and we said
we would deliver for you doing whatever
it takes that is why we have taken
unprecedented action to support our
economy to save jobs and secure
livelihoods to help businesses pull
through at this difficult time we have
set out income support schemes for both
the employed and self-employed as well
as a package of grants loans business
rate holidays and v8e deferrals
businesses and trade unions have
welcomed our interventions and I want to
reassure them that we are working around
the clock to get the funding as quickly
as possible to where it is needed on
Monday we launched the coronavirus
business interruption loan scheme this
scheme is designed to make it easier for
businesses with a
of up to 45 million pounds to access
vital financial support so far the
scheme's 40 accredited lenders including
all of the high street banks are
processing thousands of applications
this week I provided guidance to English
councils on the grants to our smallest
businesses including those operating in
the retail hospitality and leisure
sectors the first tranche of funding
arrived with English councils yesterday
and I want to ensure that the grant
money is with businesses as soon as
possible providing direct funding
support to almost a million businesses
across our country now whilst our
companies have requested financial
support they have also asked us to look
to ease the burden of regulation at this
challenging time and we have responded
to that request yesterday we brought
forward legislation to temporarily
suspend some competition rules in the
supermarket sector and in the operation
of Isle of Wight ferries from retailers
sharing delivery vans to ferry operators
coordinating staff these measures will
allow firms to work together to deliver
vital services to the public more
effectively at this time we've also
introduced measures to ensure that
workers who have not taken all of their
statutory annual leave due to curve in
19 will now be able to carry that
entitlement over into the next two years
this will protect staff from losing out
whilst providing businesses with
flexibility when they need it most
earlier this week together with
Companies House we announced that over
four million businesses will be granted
a three-month extension to the filing of
their accounts through a fast-track
online process over 10,000 businesses
have already successfully applied for
this extension and we will continue to
monitor the company's abilities to meet
the range of other filing obligations
they have under the Companies Act
and we will provide further extensions
if needed I recognize just how hard
employees business owners and directors
are working to keep their companies
going it is crucial that when the crisis
passes as it will we are ready to bounce
back and so today I want to announce
more measures which are designed to give
businesses greater flexibility as they
face the current crisis to help them
emerge intact the other side of the
curve in nineteen pandemic we will
introduce measures to improve the
insolvency system which provides the
legal options for companies running into
major difficulties our overriding
objective is to help UK companies which
need to undergo a financial rescue or
restructuring process to keep trading
these measures will give those firms
extra time and space to weather the
storm and be ready when the crisis ends
whilst ensuring that creditors get the
best return possible in the
circumstances the changes to the
insolvency regime will include new rules
to make sure companies undergoing
restructuring can continue to get hold
of supplies and raw materials and there
will be a temporary suspension of
wrongful trading provisions for company
directors to remove the threat of
personal liability during the pandemic
this provision will have a retrospective
effect from the 1st of March however to
be clear all of the other checks and
balances that help to ensure directors
fulfill their duties properly will
remain in force we will bring forward
legislation in these areas at the
earliest opportunity we will also put in
place measures to ensure that companies
required to hold annual general meetings
can do so flexibly in a manner which is
compatible with the best public health
guidance
this might include postponing or holding
the AGM online or by phone using only
proxy 13
in addition we are also introducing a
range of measures to boost the supply of
personal protective equipment such as
face masks to protect frontline NHS
staff and we're removing administrative
barriers to the production of hand
sanitizer by reducing the amount of red
tape new suppliers and businesses that
produce ingredients for safe hand
sanitizer we'll be able to bring their
products to market in a matter of days
companies including BrewDog and in EOS
have already stepped forward to offer
their services I'm incredibly proud of
how businesses and individuals across
our great nation have risen to the
challenge posed by covert 19 whether it
is offers from companies coming forward
to support the ventilator challenge or
more than 700,000 people signing up to
volunteer for our brilliant brilliant
NHS all those in the public and private
sector working hard to keep our country
safe and moving Britain is meeting the
challenge working together in a joint
endeavor to get through this pandemic
and be in no doubt the government will
continue to fight tooth and nail to
protect lives and livelihoods everywhere
in this country as we stand shoulder to
shoulder with our people and our
businesses thank you we will now move to
the question answer session I think the
first question is from the BBC from
Dominic Hughes Dominic please yes
questions mainly for Professor Paris I
think how full our intensive care units
in London and around the UK at the
moment
are there any hospitals that have run
out of beds or are close to capacity
how many spare ventilated beds do we
still have and then on testing has
testing of NHS staff who are currently
having to self isolate as that started
now how many tests have currently been
done thanks so thank you very much
so on the question of ITU capacity
as you know the NHS has been working
incredibly hard to increase the capacity
beyond the 4,000 or so
beds that we typically have and that has
been pursued firstly in London although
work is going on all over the country
because as you are also aware the
infection has spread a bit quicker in
London so we are not at capacity yet
within London but beds are being opened
all the time to produce that extra surge
capacity so in the first instance we are
using theatres and recovery areas so
those are areas in hospitals where
anaesthetic machines ventilators are
already used for surgery and can be
readily adapted to take critically ill
patients and that has already occurred
you may have seen some of that in London
hospitals and that's almost doubling the
capacity that we have already we are not
using it at the moment but clearly
number of patients is increasing each
day so we are expanding that capacity in
advance you will also seen the plans at
the NHS Nightingale in East London to
initially bring on another 500 beds if
they are needed and we aim to get that
up and ready for patients next week so
at the moment I'm confident the capacity
is there we have not reached capacity I
am also confident that capacity is
expanding particularly in London so that
we keep a head of increase in patient
numbers and on the testing as the chief
executive of the NHS said yesterday it
is absolutely critical that we now begin
to introduce testing for staff and as
I've said before just to explain that's
really important for two reasons
firstly because if we have staff at home
either self isolating themselves or in
quarantine because the member of the
family has symptoms if it turns out that
it's not because of coronavirus and we
can bring that staff member back that is
really important for the workforce
particularly in critical areas such as
critical care clinicians or emergency
department clinicians and those are the
groups paramedics as well I should say
that we will be focusing on first and
secondly because if they are positive
when they do come back
they can be comforted they will have
some immunity and that will be really
important going forward as we understand
which parts of the workforce have had
this virus and are therefore likely to
be immune so as Simon Stevin said
yesterday we are now beginning as we
ramped up testing which we're doing all
the time to use that extra capacity over
and above that which we need for
patients to start to test NHS staff so
we're working with NHS organisations as
I speak to ensure that that testing will
be available over the next few days for
their critical staff Thank You Stephen I
think we want to ITV Paul Brandt Paul
yeah thank you business secretary
secretary of state first of all could
you give us an update please on the
health of the Prime Minister the health
secretary and the chief medical officer
has now been tested to go bid 90 and to
the medical director if I may given the
number of deaths we've seen in the past
couple of days what hope is there that
we're not on the same trajectory as
countries like Italy and given the rate
of increase can the NHS cope at this
current level Paul thank you very much
for that well as you heard yesterday in
the press conference the Prime Minister
is showing mild symptoms he continues to
lead the government's effort in
combating curve in 19 this morning he
held a video conference call and he will
continue to lead right from the front on
this but I think the one thing this has
reminded us is that no one is immune and
that is precisely why we ask people to
follow the government advice in terms of
staying at home where they're actually
able to do that we want to make sure we
protect the NHS and ultimately save
lives Stephen yes so clearly there has
been a big increase in deaths today and
every death is tragic and of course we
need to do everything that we can to
ensure that we don't lose the lives of
loved ones to this terrible virus but
it's the Patrick balance I think the
chief scientific adviser to the
government said recently if we can keep
that below 20,000 we will have done very
well in this epidemic it's early at the
moment and the scientists who are
working with government to
model what we can expect are of course
adjusting their predictions now as we
start to see the actuality of the
epidemic in the UK rather than what we
believed might have happened a few weeks
ago if we do reduce the deaths to a
level which is below what we initially
thought I want to be absolutely clear
that won't be because we are somehow
lucky it won't be because somehow the
virus is acting in this country
differently from any other country it
will be because every citizen in this
country the British public have complied
with the instructions that the
government has given based on the best
scientific evidence to reduce the
transmission of the disease we can beat
this virus we can reduce the number of
deaths but only if we reduce the spread
and the transmission now is not the time
to be complacent now is the time to
really really lock down and and hone
down on what we've been asked to do as
I've said before it's not somebody
else's responsibility it's all our
responsibilities if we are to ensure
that we keep within NHS capacity and of
course as I said earlier we are
extending capacity all the time every
one of us has a part to play and we know
that can work great thank you very much
for that the next question is from LBC
Ben Kentish Ben LBC secretary of state
you've told people to stay at home but
you've also told them to go to work if
of course they're unable to work from
home LBC we've had lots of calls from
people saying they simply don't feel
safe at work and while the government's
urged employers to be responsible for
this and it's clear some have it's also
clear that many aren't so what would the
government do to protect those people
who are having to go to work key workers
and non key workers to make sure they're
safe to do so and if I made a professor
Powis long suite Boris Johnson said he
was confident or hopeful that we could
turn the tide within 12 weeks that was
before these more extreme social
distancing measures were introduced and
this now some talk the peak could be as
little as three weeks away are you
confident
can now turn the tide sooner than 12
weeks thank you Ben thank you very much
for that so we've always been very clear
right from the start of the situation is
that we will be led by the scientific
and medical advice and that also applies
to the framing of any guidance that we
have put out when it comes to how people
should conduct themselves when it comes
to work we have set out a detailed list
of non-essential businesses which we
have required to close and I want to
thank those businesses for acting
responsibly we've also said that
wherever possible people should work
from home and very many people across
our country have responded to that it is
however the case there are certain
workplaces where you're not able to work
from home such as a manufacturing sector
where you will be required to go into
work we've said that people should on
those occasions look to go into work
however it is also incumbent on
employers to make sure that they follow
the public health England guidelines and
they keep the employees safe and that
certainly is what very many employers
are doing I have conversations every day
with businesses with business
representative groups and I understand
from those conversations that they are
indeed adapting and they're also making
sure that where it's required they're
issuing their staff with PPE but if
there are instances that people feel
that organizations and businesses are
not behaving appropriately in terms of
their duty of care that of course there
are organizations like the HSE who
should be informed Steve so what I am
confident of is that it is possible to
get on top of this virus and I'm
confident for several reasons one
because as a scientist and somebody who
listens to our colleagues our
epidemiologists who understand this as I
said earlier if we can reduce the
transmission rate the amount of spread
from individual to individual then the
virus will start to decline in the
population that is a simple set of maths
that underpins all these measures that
have been put in and so if we all comply
with the measures and reduce that amount
of transmission then yes we will begin
to see a drop in
the amount of virus circulating and I'm
also confident because we see the other
countries who have taken country sex
slightly different approaches but the
fundamental rationale is always the same
to reduce transmission we have seen that
begin to work the time frame I think is
difficult to determine but I think we
will see over the course of the next
month exactly how that will play out
here in the UK but as I said earlier
this is not the time to be complacent
this is the time to really bear down and
for all of us to act responsibly to
reduce that transmission and if we do
that then the quicker we will turn the
tide on this and the quicker we will be
confident that we can stay within the
capacity with the NHS is planning great
Thank You Steven the next question is
from the Sun on Sunday date woulding
Dave it seems that this virus has
infected the heart of governments one
could be forgiven thinking that there
with the prime ministerial and members
of his cabinet and officials that some
of them are going down like flies how
can you run an effective government when
it's it's rampant at the very heart of
Westminster and of course if this is
infecting the NHS in similar at similar
levels what does that mean further
treatment of people who are suffering
from this virus and secondly can you
just perhaps give us some indication of
what's being done to bring home some
British subjects who were abroad
stranded and we've seen some of the
police from them about the difficulties
they're having in getting home Dave
thank you very much for that and can I
be absolute clear is that the Prime
Minister has had mild symptoms but he's
absolutely deras Ponce from the front
the government is totally united in
ensuring that we combat this virus and
that we bounce back the other side of it
so I want to be very clear about that is
that there are no gaps in government we
are collectively all working very hard
led by the prime minister you raise the
issue about getting our people back my
colleagues in the FCO Dominic Rob other
colleagues are working incredibly hard
a night and day to make sure that we can
get Brits back to the UK we will
continue to work with Airlines to get
them back from around the world and of
course in the first instance through
commercial means but also through
repatriation flights and exceptional
circumstances for instance by chartering
and as you know a a British Airways
charter flight arrived back from Peru
yesterday and the FCR of course working
very hard to get more flights confirmed
in the coming days Stephen did you want
to add it yes so NHS staff are obviously
critical for the reasons that I've
mentioned in the reasons you know and
and they they are like any member of the
public possibility that they will they
will get the virus clearly we keep them
protected at work but they too will will
have to self isolate and quarantine
quite rightly if they develop symptoms
that are compatible with Kovac 19 of
course in the work that we are doing to
increase NHS capacity we have to take
into account that some of our staff will
be all for those reasons and I can
assure you that we have been planning
for this since since January since very
early on even before the World Health
Organization called it a pandemic and we
have taken into account local
organizations do take into account that
there will be a degree of absenteeism of
staff and as I also said earlier that's
the reason that rolling out testing to
NHS staff which is what we are doing now
is the critical first step in ensuring
that where staff don't have CO vide 19
they can come back to the workforce as
quickly as possible thank you for that
the next question is from The Sunday
Telegraph Edie Malnik Edie thank you
the government's talked about hospitals
now getting the quantities of protective
equipment that they need can you
guarantee that all hospitals will get
the same level of PPE like the FFP three
masks as Professor powers and mr. Sharma
the government appealed for help from
industry to produce ventilators getting
the support it needs to produce PPE in
tests or do you need more help from
industry and when will the most of the
3.5 million
body tests be used in great so you so
again on personal protective equipment
PPE obviously critical to management of
patients with kovat 19 and to the
protection of staff so we are putting
supplies of PPE out into healthcare
organizations constantly so over 170
million of the very highest level masks
and in the last couple of weeks and just
in the last day a couple of days 40
million gloves 25 million face masks 40
million aprons so vast numbers going out
we are strengthening the supply chain
every day to ensure that every
organization gets the equipment that
they need that is an absolute priority
for us great thank you very much for
that well as I've announced today we are
making changes so that we can get more
hand sanitizers into the system and make
sure that we get more PPE equipment into
the system so pacifically in terms of
PPE the measures that we have undertaken
is at the office for product safety and
standards which actually sits in in my
department has written to notified
bodies on this issue the notified bodies
are the ones that are recognized as
experts who test products for safety
requirements and we have asked them to
prioritize the testing of any new PPE
supply as a matter of priority we want
to put PPE testing to the front of the
queue thank you I think we have one
final question from the mail on Sunday
Brendon Carlin
Brendon and Kyle is worst of all on the
subject of the the latest study by
Imperial College suggesting that we
could be on course for much lower
numbers deaths and at first feared does
that align with the government's own
thinking is that something that
modelling that you yourself agree with
and a question if I count the Secretary
of State Kanaskie you you you've spoken
of fighting today fighting the pandemic
tooth and nail and doing everything you
can
as far as many people have broad British
citizens abroad concerned that looks a
bit that may ring hollow as it looks so
we're lagging behind other countries and
getting our citizens back aren't you
concerned about that I think I alluded
to this in a in a previous answer so of
course the the government is very much
basing the response in this country
quite rightly quite rightly in my view
on the best scientific advice and the
Imperial academic group and a number of
other academic groups are providing some
of the scientific underpinning that is
managed through the scientific advisory
group for emergency sage a group you
might have heard of chaired by the
government's chief scientific adviser
Sir Patrick valence and and that group
will take account of a number of inputs
from various academic groups including
colleagues at Imperial but but as I said
earlier and the number of deaths that
arise out of this epidemic in the UK if
it's less than 20 thousands of Sir
Patrick valence said that that would be
a good result although every death as
I've said is is absolutely a tragedy but
we shouldn't be complacent about that
although that would be a good result it
will only happen if we stop the
transmission of the virus and and I
sound like a broken record player on
this but but it really is the way that
if we're going to get to the numbers of
deaths that you're talking about it
doesn't happen by luck it's not just
chance it's because of the actions that
you take that I take that we all take to
reduce the transmission of the virus so
it is possible to get on top of this
virus but you do that by stopping the
transmission that's the basis of social
distancing that's what the government is
introduced on the best scientific advice
that's what other countries have done
and we have seen in previous epidemics
that it is a successful measure so I
cannot emphasize enough to everybody
watching today that you have the chance
to save a life you have a chance
to stop a ventilator being used that
otherwise would need to be used it
really is as simple as that
this is not complex the science behind
it might be complex but the reality is
incredibly simple avoid contact with
others where you can stay at home if
you're symptomatic isolate and that will
result in fewer deaths and less pressure
on the NHS it is that stock for all of
us Brennan just going back to your
question about whether we're being
slower than other countries I don't
think that is the case where there had
been no other options for British
nationals to come back to the UK
we of course have laid on repatriation
flights I made mention of the the flight
that arrived back from Peru yesterday
and we will continue to work round the
clock to make sure that we get our
people back thank you very much for your
service and I think that's the final
question can I just end by saying that
we are doing ab c-- everything we can to
support businesses and our people but we
have to make sure that everyone follows
the advice that we have put out there
and that is stay at home protect the NHS
and save lives thank you
[Music]
you